good morning good afternoon good evening
hope you all are doing well welcome back
hey
yeah
let's go
i played the music
and i got so into it i almost forgot the
first yeah i was like yeah
yeah what's going on everybody hope you
all are doing well welcome back
out we're we got a good night tonight a
little different we always like to mix
it up every once in a while
tonight we're going to review the node
code from last class step through it
kind of almost line by line make sure we
feel comfortable making changes to it
and then we're jumping into a project
night that means no check-in we don't
want any new riffraff coming in just
want to be true 100 devs in the house so
we're going to get in we're going to
answer some questions we're going to
jump into some code and then project
night it is folks
i want you to build a full stack app
using core modules some real nerd stuff
and then next week we bring in a
sweet sweet express oh
can't wait for next week
but tonight we do it bare
bones when you're in an interview you
say ah express express
i've done it with the core modules on
the block by myself
let's go
are we riff-raff gatekeepers though uh
no it's just because new folks joining
at this point it's always a little weird
cause they show up day one and it's
project night and they're like oh
what is this so we don't like to do
tweets on on project nights just so that
new folks aren't confused like why we
aren't live on stream anymore why we're
on this thing called remo and discord
yeah
alrighty folks let's get into it as you
know always like to start off with some
questions if you got some questions i
got some answers let's give folks that
are running home from work a chance to
get in
no new friends exactly no new friends
uh not on project nights just too
confusing for folks that are joining
all right folks you got questions i got
answers let's get a few questions in as
folks join us we're gonna go through the
code and then bump into project night
what does ketchup crew do about all
these project nights well when you get
to the project boom post on the catch-up
crew hey i'm getting ready to work
through this project you'll have tons of
folks that want to join you on that
project so if you're going through the
ketchup crew feel free to do the
projects at your own pace post in the
ketchup crew folks will join you
is our project going to be due for
homework of course of course we're going
to start it tonight it's due for
homework on
tuesday
i went i went to a job fair now people
are contacting me i'm still not ready
what do i do you say hey i'm not
currently looking for new opportunities
but i will be in around three months
oh you tell a recruiter that they're
like oh
you don't wanna you don't wanna
interview right now why why not oh
you're you're elusive you're hard to get
maybe i want you more now and i will
talk to you in three months and so
always get a time on the calendar and
say hey right now i'm not looking for
new opportunities would love to catch up
in three months can we put something on
the calendar today for three months away
right and the beauty of that is that in
three months time when you are more
ready you already have that calendar
invite
ready to rock and roll you're ready to
meet with those folks and so you're
gonna start
if you're doing things correctly right
if you're doing all the things we've
been talking about when it comes to your
resume your linkedin your twitter's all
that stuff you're going to start having
recruiters reach out to you
and part of the process is managing that
and not not putting all your hopes into
each outreach right like having a
dedicated process realizing that you're
going to be working with 60 companies
right you got it you got to take it in
stride and you got to make sure it's on
your terms and so you got to get
comfortable saying hey i'm not really
looking for new opportunities right now
but i will be in three months let's
connect then and get the time on the
books for then
don't don't run into the slaughter if
you're not ready yet that's all i'll say
i have my first chat with a recruiter
from ibm tomorrow i had lots of coffee
chats where the end goal was to get a
referral from a person what kind of
questions should i be asking so on the
bank
there is a list of questions you can ask
other folks so if you just use the bank
exclamation point bank there are
questions at the end
right
there are questions at the end
that you can use to ask during
interviews so make sure you use those
questions uh when it's a when it's an
informational interview with a recruiter
you want to just kind of talk about the
company what type of what they're
looking for in engineers uh what
exciting things that they have that
they're working on currently you should
do your research before you go into
those calls know about the company know
about new initiatives projects things
like that know about their core values
make sure you're peppering that in while
you're talking to the recruiter but
a lot of times these first calls are
informational asking questions that are
on the bank and you'll be in a good spot
alrighty
got some good questions coming in here
what if i'm asked a tech question in an
interview and i still don't know the
answer for it that's okay
take a pause think about what you do
know and answer in that i'm a big fan of
never saying i don't know
right
i feel that's that's some somewhat of a
contrarian viewpoint but instead it's
like i have no idea you go well here's
what i do know and i know it's in the
same realm is that close to what you
were looking for right so even if it's
not on the nose with an answer you kind
of give them some background some other
things that are close to your experience
the things that you do know and and try
to get close to it but remember when
we're interviewing when we're
interviewing
it's 160. so sometimes interviews don't
go our way that's okay we dust our
shoulders off we move on to the next one
and we we make sure we never forget that
question ever again
should we be getting interviews now no
we are not ready to interview yet we are
not ready to interview yet we still have
to go through uh the patented 50-day
system to be ready to interview we have
a lot of fun stuff a lot of a lot of
things that we have to learn to be
really really leaning interviewing
machines so we're not there yet we're
getting close we're starting we're
starting to hunt soon we uh we have
tonight to get into some node
next week we get into express by the end
of next week we just get
by the end of next week you can build
your own apis
let's just think about that for a second
you'll be able to build your own api
next week any api you want to build
you'll be able to do it
by the end of next week you'll be able
to build basic crud apps
basic crud apps build your own apis by
the end of just next week
all right
and then we take the next few weeks to
ramp that up
right we'll take some time actually for
you to have time to build projects using
those technologies right so we will have
a little bit of a break coming up that's
not really a break it's really just you
having extended project time to put the
stuff that we learned into practice
right but we're close folks
i know this when we get to know people
like to freak out a little bit but i
just got to tell you that you're getting
closer the nectar is getting sweeter
you're you're you're almost there in
terms of being able to build whatever
you want to build and so tonight we're
seeing the old school the bare bones
we're we're pulling on our nerd pants so
we can do it from scratch with with the
core modules but next week when we hit
express
express makes our lives so much easier
we have to build our own apis and be
able to build our own crud apps and then
it's just a matter of what do i want to
build and putting in the hours to get it
done
so you give me one more week you're
gonna be feeling good about the things
that you can build and then that's when
the world kind of opens up
after next week the world opens up you
can do the things you want to do you can
build the things that you want to build
and companies will start to see the
quality of your projects start to
increase and once we're feeling
comfortable building that's when we
start the hunt and we lock down these
jobs
cool
all right
speaking of such
when we get to node when we get to the
back end there is a moment right there
is a moment there's like a little a
little a little little thing that
happens in your brain that just goes
right it's kind of it's kind of like
jumping into a cold shower
right i don't know if you ever jumped
into a cold shower you jump into the
cold shower and it feels horrible at
first your heart rate is racing you all
the only thing you want in that moment
is to get out of that cold shower but if
you just stick it out
just for a few seconds
just for if you if you let the initial
shock
of being in that cold shower dissipate
it's not too bad
right it's not too bad once the initial
shock goes away
and you realize all right it's just it's
just cold water i'm still alive
i'm gonna make it right
i'm still here we still in line we still
outside right
it was just the shock
right that shock that that that that
that that
if you just get through that that
initial shock that initial panic you
start to realize it's not too bad
some folks might even say it feels real
good
i think it feels good
and i think node can be something
similar
we look at it
and that that panic reflex happens
and just like if you're in a cold shower
you freeze up you panic just a little
bit
but if you can get just over that just
that little hump of panic that little
hump of
like the brain glitching for a second
and you just get to the other side
you start to see the benefits of it
right you start to see oh it's not so
bad
i can use this to build real stuff
i can use this to like make my dreams
come true like this is wonderful
and so when we look at this node code
tonight
give yourself a second for the
to happen
and then realize you know what it's not
so bad when we look at node there's a
lot of little things
and i don't need you to understand
everything
i just need you to know how the lego
pieces come together
when we're writing back end code
we're sitting on the shoulders of giants
that have done all the heavy lifting for
us
and so i don't need you to know the
nitty-gritty of how create server works
i just know you need to use it when
you're creating a server
i don't need you to know the read the
nitty-gritty of how read file works i
just need you to know when you're trying
to send a file that's what you use
right and so when we look at this code
tonight give yourself that breathing
room that that that a a little bit of
trust
that it's gonna be okay and realize that
you don't have to know everything it's
right now we are picking up blocks and
learning how to put these blocks in
convenient orders that's all it is
and eventually we'll have other tools
and systems that make rearranging these
blocks easier
right
making sure that
you have systems to arrange these blocks
but at first we're just picking them up
and going all right this does this this
does that but i guarantee you when we
look at some of the code tonight i
couldn't do it from scratch i wouldn't
want to know how to do it from scratch i
would just look at my past examples grab
some snippets put them together i know
how it all comes together but you don't
have to stress out about knowing all the
nitty gritty details so let that
moment dissipate
and we're going to get into some node
we're gonna we're gonna see it we're
gonna talk through it tonight and then
we're gonna get into
remo or discord and practice building
tonight i want you to build your first
full stack app something that's going to
go on your portfolio that says you know
what i've done it from scratch i've done
it with the basic core modules express
was just another tool in my tool belt
but i've done it from the beginning so
let's take a moment let's look through
this code that we saw last class let's
talk through it kind of go through it
line by line and then we're going to
stop
we're going to move into a project night
we're going to work on projects together
uh as a as a wonderful 100 devs
community and then no next week
we add express on top and our life gets
easier we're building apis we're
building the apps of our dreams you're
close
up close
cool
all right folks
my roommate where i was studying apis
and objects last night and i was nervous
going into it he told me everything
you're saying right now just give it a
bit the stress and moment of terrible
past and everything gets so much easier
it's true
all right folks
let's go ahead and jump jump in i'm
going to go ahead little leon here
all right if you need the materials
tonight there's no slides there's no
checking because tonight's a project
night so we're going to stream just for
a little bit to walk through this code
one more time let's panic together
exactly and then once we are done
walking through it you're going to jump
into teams to build a full stack app of
your choice
i'm excited for you all to be true full
stack developers building full stack
apps with the core modules in the muck
let's go
all right
so
when we look at this code if you don't
have the code you can join our discord
exclamation point discord agree to the
rules in the follow along materials
channel is this code the node backend
simple json if you were here last class
you already have it you can download a
fresh copy if you want to but that's
what i'm looking through right now
cool
all right if we look at it at the top
we have our what what do we have up here
chat
we have our modules right
and our modules do all the heavy lifting
for us if we were to peek into these
modules we would see a bunch of
functions that have been written for us
right that do all the heavy lifting
the http module comes with everything we
need to start a server to listen to
network requests to respond to network
requests
the fs module comes with everything we
need to access the disk remember
when we are creating servers
right when we when we were talking about
like how the internet's work
right we're talking about how the
internets work
we have
client-side devices
and servers
and these clients are making requests to
the server
and the server's responding
at first with files
right with files
and those files have to exist somewhere
and they're existing on a hard drive or
a solid state drive
on the server
right
they exist on the server and so we need
something that enables us to grab those
files the html file the javascript file
the css file off of the hard drive or
off of the ssd we need something that
can actually do that
and the fs module is what handles that
for us
then we want to be able to look at the
different requests that are coming in
when we're talking about this very very
basic
back end code here and we're talking
about this very very basic full stack
app
how are users making requests there's
really two types of requests that we see
in this project you know how we're
making those two requests
remember from from tuesday there's only
two ways that we've been able to make
requests with this app that we've built
here what are two ways that they're able
to make requests from the client
yeah changing the url was one right so
if they typed in a url and hit enter
that was a request
and the cool thing is we're able to look
at that url to see what they were
requesting right that's what the url
module's going to help us with here is
going to be able to look and see alright
what were you requesting
then we also had one other way that we
saw that people were doing and that's
right it was the fetch
so in our client-side javascript we had
this lovely fetch here and this fetch
was making a request
but if we look on this request in the
fetch it has a what
what did this fetch have on it
remember when we were doing our apis
has a civic name
yeah query parameter exactly we can see
in our fetch that our fetch has a query
parameter called student
right it's called student that's the
query parameter so if we look
at our modules we have some that's going
to help us set up the server
listen to those requests
respond to those requests based on
that's going to enable us to look at the
disk grab those files off of our drive
we have some that's going to enable us
to look at the url that's be coming in
as part of that request
and be able to look at the query
parameters that are part of the request
and then last we have figlet
what did figlet do
yeah it gave us a lovely ascii art 404
well thickly just takes any string
and turns it into ascii art we just used
it for the 404 so it looked good right
now is figlet like a core module like
does that just like come when you use
node
no
how did we get figlit
yeah we had to use npm we used npm
install
npm install figlet and we got access to
figlet
i loved some i said mayan told me
exactly my wolf told you exactly
all right
so
we have our modules that are doing all
the heavy lifting for us
and then we have our actual server code
here and
you feel the
right
if you
look right when we look at this there's
a lot going on here
the only thing that this is doing
all this code that i have highlighted
all this is doing getting close with it
looking at what's being asked
and if it understands what you're asking
for
it gives you a response
that's all it's doing all the code that
i just highlighted all it is is it's
saying all right
what did you just ask for from the
client
do i know how to respond to what you
just asked for
and if it doesn't if i don't know what
you're asking for
what do i do
if i don't know what you're asking for
what am i going to give you
i'm going to give you a 404. so if we go
back and look look look
let's go back and take a look
you're just asking the server for stuff
and here's me just trying to handle
everything you're asking for
but
if i don't know what you're asking for
this is what i do
i respond
with a 404
that's it all i'm gonna do
is i'm gonna send you
i'm gonna send you
the 404 that's it that's all i'm gonna
do if you ask for something and i don't
know what you're asking for
you're getting the 404 back all right
now
there are a lot of things that you could
ask me for let me get back here for a
second
right
there are a lot of things you could be
asking me for
right
but when we're talking about web
applications
we're using a specific interface
what's the interface that we're using
when it comes to web applications
i'm in the browser like if i'm if i'm in
my clients and i'm in the browser but
i'm using a specific interface a lot of
times
yeah i see some folks thrown in there
the url is our interface the url is the
buttons on our remote control
so
when we run this server
the server is listening for different
urls that's it
those are the only buttons on our
controller the only buttons on our
interface
right
it's just the urls
so when a user types in a url
they are making a request
right
they are making a request to our server
and that is the buttons on the on the
remote control just like you can hit the
power button remote control and that
request goes to the tv and the tv turns
on
well the way this server is working is
that it's listening for those button
presses but instead of it as being
buttons on remote control it's just
different urls that you're asking for
right different urls
so
let's go to a normal website
let's just go to a normal website
all right normal website
let's just go to it
leononwell.com boom beautiful website
when i hit enter
what that when i hit enter on
leoniewell.com what did i just do
i made a request
i made a request to my server
my server heard that request
and respond it with html
right that's why you're able to see
something in the browser you typed in
leonov.com you hit enter you made a
request just like when you press the
power button on your remote control
you're making a request to your tv when
you type in a url you are making
requests to servers
so now
let's look at our server
our server is set up
to hear
different requests
a request on the main page the main
route the the just the normal page that
you're on
the default the index the root whatever
you want to call it the main page
it's also set up to hear any url that
has other page it's set up to hear any
url that has other other page it's set
up to listen for
urls that have
api in it
it's set up to here
urls that have this style sheet in it
urls that have this js file in it and if
it doesn't have any of those urls that i
just showed you it serves up a 404.
that's it
that's all we're doing
it's the only thing that we set up our
server to do
right we set up our server
to listen for specific things
right we set up our server to listen
for specific things
and when it hears those specific things
we get to decide
what happens
so right now
the way most websites work
is that you are
typing in urls and when you hit enter on
your url
right you expect some stuff back
when you go to dominos.com
you expect some html to be sent to you
right you expect some stuff to be sent
back to you this is the way the web has
always worked
this is what you do whenever you go to
any website
you type in a url you make a request to
a server
the server hears the request and it
knows what to do because somebody coded
it in the way that it's supposed to
respond
you get to control
what happens when somebody makes that
request when somebody goes to that url
you get to decide what happens and so
what we're saying here is if somebody
goes to our main page
send them this file
if somebody goes to this page
send them this file if somebody goes to
this page send them this file if
somebody makes this request do this crap
right here if somebody
asks for this
send them this file if somebody asks for
that send them this file
all it is
is someone that's listening
and then responding
we get to code what happens when we hear
that request
right
same exact thing
as a click event
if you know how a click event works you
understand how the back end works
think about it
right we said when you click on this
thing
i want you to do all this code
they're just the smurfs are back in town
right the smurfs are back in town
right they're just fancy smurfs they got
a fancy hat on that's all it is
right
when you clicked on something some code
ran
now instead of it being a click
we're listening for a request
and the most simple request you do every
single day when you're using the
internet is just typing in a url
when you type in a url the smurf with
the fancy hat hears that request and
then it goes all right so i just heard
this request what am i supposed to do
again oh
i'm going to send them this file
or the other smurf here's this request
and goes what am i going to do again oh
i'm going to send them this file
that's all that's happening that's all
that's happening the front end someone's
typing in a url on the back end someone
hears that request and knows what to do
to respond
that's it
that's how that everything we do going
forward is just that
it really is
you make a request we know how to
respond
that's it
now our responses will get more and more
complex
but the idea of hearing the request and
responding it stays the same
eventually when we hear a request we're
going to do a bunch of fancy stuff we're
going to go to a database we're going to
get data we're going to we're going to
do something with that data we're gonna
we're gonna make a really really fancy
response and then respond with it
but all it is
is a request and we get to control how
we respond so
we have our code here i'm gonna go ahead
and open up my terminal
and i want to run this code
how can i run this code
i've already done my mpm install
biglit right because we didn't have
figlet i already did my mpm install
figlit if you don't have figlet
installed you're gonna have to do mpm
install
biglit right just so you have it if i
wanna start this server i'm gonna do
node
server.js
beautiful
how do i know that my server is running
yeah no reply i don't have the ability
to type out my next command
so something's happening here right
something's happening here
i can't actually type another command so
i know that my server is running
if we look all the way at the end
my mouse died
in my mouth
my mouth just died i'll use my other i
have my backup mouse
all right so
i got i got a backup though all right so
if we look over at the end
we can see that my
server is running on port 8000. so we
can tell that my server's running
because i don't have my reply back
and
i can tell that it's on port 8000 so i'm
going to go to my browser
and i'm going to go to localhost 8000
and boom
as soon as i typed in localhost 8000
what did i really do
i typed in locos 8000 i hit enter from
my browser what did i do
i made a request
beautiful
my server which is running is set up to
hear that request
and when it heard the request it did
something specific let's go look at what
it did
so here we go
here's the page that was requested
right the main page that was requested
when i heard that request what did i
respond with
i heard that request what did i respond
with
i responded exactly
i responded with my index.html
that's it this whole block of text line
12 through 16
right
12 through 16. all of that code was just
so that i could respond with my html
file
that's it
do i need to know how each of these
lines works
no
i don't i will never see these again
express is going to handle all this for
me in the future
i don't need to but i can kind of
decipher what's happening here
when you are
there are codes that the browser used to
kind of understand if the request you
made and the response you sent was
successful
so we're telling it hey
everything went okay that's what 200
means everything went okay and we're
going to send you some html
then we're kind of pulling in the html
that we're going to send and then we
like
we send it
that's it
that's it that's what's happening here
but do i need to know it no
will express handle it yes
right but when folks see this they get
they get freaked out they're like leon
do i need to like be able to code this
from scratch hell
no
you need to understand what's happening
yes
you need to understand that when
somebody
made this request
this is what we wrote to respond with
that's it
and we got to control how we responded
in the future
if i needed to respond with a different
file what could i do
if i knew that on a different request i
was going to respond with a different
file what could i do
i could copy it
come down here
and paste it
and change the file then i'm going to
send oh
and look what happens here
here's another request
that we're set up to handle
all right so somebody request the other
page
here
is what i'm going to respond with
all right let's test it out
slash
other
page hit enter three two one
all right as soon as i hit enter
on localhost 8000
other page what did i do
what did i just make
i made another request
and guess what
my server was set up to hear that
request it was listening for other page
when it heard the other page request it
knew what to do
it sent
this h
it sent this html file
right
cool
let's try other other page
three two one
boom
as soon as i hit enter what did i do
i made a request
and guess what
my server
is set up to
hear that request
it's kind of getting boring right like
we're like ah i thought i thought the
background was gonna be so hard all it
is is listening for requests and writing
what the heck happens when that request
comes in
[Music]
oh sleepy
why is it
what is this back and why is it so hard
cool
now
something interesting happens though
let's go back to our main page
hey welcome leo
let's go back to the main page let's hit
enter
what do we know
what do we know just happened here we
made a request
we heard the request we served up our
html file but then something else
happened
oh
i see y'all
the html file
asks for some other stuff the html file
made some requests itself right we went
to localhost 8000 we made a request for
the html file
and
if we look at that html file
you can see that it requests
a style sheet
and it requests
a javascript file
right the html file is asking for those
stuff with the script and the link so
because we loaded that page we asked for
that html file once it loaded it it made
those requests
and guess what
our server set up to hear those requests
oh
you're asking for the style sheet
boom i got you i'm gonna send you the
style sheet
oh
you want the javascript file boom i got
you i will send you a javascript file
that's it
would all images need to be set up this
way too
ducati amazing question yes
right now
every single request
would need
to be here in our conditional if you
wanted another style sheet you wanted an
image you wanted a javascript file you
would need to have it be part of this
conditional
doesn't that sound like
an
absolute
nightmare
for every single thing that you would
ever think about think about think about
like instagram could you imagine being
like oh
i can't think of like any instagrammers
up kim kardashian just posted again and
there's somebody like at instagram like
like just trying to update the
conditional before other folks see it so
that the image can be sent to everyone
right could you imagine that like
they're like oh
they just posted again and they're in
there like trying to update the
conditional right no that's not that's
not how it can work right
so eventually
express
aka the stuff that we'll be learning
next week makes it really easy so that
any of our static files our h sorry any
of our static files like our css our
javascript our images if they're in a
special folder it handles all the routes
for us
right now when we're using the core
modules anything that we want
needs a route we want a stylesheet needs
the route when a javascript file needs
the route images needs the route every
single thing
we need to hard code right now but next
week on tuesday
express gives us a magic folder and if
we put anything in that magic folder it
handles the routes for us
but we ain't there yet we're still on
the block by ourselves building it from
scratch
all right we handled each request but
what happens if we make a request that's
not part of our conditional
let's take a look
so let's go ahead and do log host 8 000
pokemon
we know that there's nothing there
we get a 404
let's let's see let's see what happened
here right let's try it out
we
made a request
and it went through this conditional did
you just request
the main page no
did you request other page no did you
request other other page no did you
request api no did you request the style
sheet no did you request the javascript
file no
so there's no other elses to check
so the else automatically runs and we
send
the 404.
that's it
somebody asked an interesting question
what's the difference between
doing localhost 8000
and just trying to open the html file
right like we can we can do this
right we can do that
it opened up the html file
it didn't load what though
it didn't load it didn't load the css it
didn't load the javascript right
because
there's a difference between
opening a regular file
and making a request to a server
when you're just opening files on your
computer they're not making requests to
a server
right when we are doing localhost 8000
we're making a request to a server
the only thing that's a little weird
here is that the server exists on our
own computer
but eventually the server won't be
running on our computer next week our
servers will be running on heroku or
somebody else's computer right
and so
the difference here is that we are
making requests to a server and that
server could be located anywhere
right now it's running on our machine
which is a little weird but next week it
won't be running on our machine
and so if we want to make requests and
get stuff back
right we need to make requests to a
server that is coded to handle all those
responses
now our server
is sending us back
html
right that's what a server does the
server is sending us back html
so if i go to localhost 8000 i made a
request for html and it sent it to me
and that's we have loaded here
if i somehow magically had the html file
i could try opening it and it would
still work but all we did is we asked
for that html file right like if if
domino's rolls out an update to their
website
what up writer if dominoes rolls out an
update to their website
do you have that html file
before you request it
like is there any way that you have that
that new html file for domino's new
website
uh-oh
y'all hear the door open in the
background
we can't talk about it hold on chill
chill cool cool
dom apis yeah
we're learning javascripts node
yup
connect
internets
cool all right so if we
we went to domino's website right
when we go to domino's website
we request
those files
there is no way that we have access to
those files until we request them
right
until we request them
the only thing that's weird here is that
we already have the files
right
so that's why it can be a little weird
but
we're building servers so that anyone
can request these files and get them
right now our servers running on our
machine but next week it'll be running
on somebody else's computer out there on
the internet
and anyone will be able to make requests
to it
and when they make requests we're going
to send them the html we're going to
send them the javascript we're gonna
send them
everything
don't get kind of in a weird spot
because we're doing everything locally
that's just so that we can do it quicker
and faster but there's a difference
between just opening an html file and
making a request to a server
is this what netlify is doing then yes
netlify takes all of your stuff
and puts it on a server
and then when you request it it sends
you that stuff that's all netlify's
doing you gave netlify all of your code
you gave netlify all your html all your
css all your javascript and what they
did is they took all that code and put
it on a server for you
and then as you request those files they
send them to you
that's it
so
our server right now
is running
i don't have my repo back so i can still
see that it's running
it is set up
right
it is set up to
here requests
set up to hear requests
when it hears those requests
we are responding with different things
right we are responding
with different things
we get to control
what we respond with
right this is where the back end
development comes into play
our users can make requests
and we get to control
what we respond with
and so so far we've just seen
right we've just seen all right they
make a request we send an html file
they make a request we send a css file
they make a request we send a javascript
file
right
but we have all made other types of
requests expecting different kind of
data to come back
what type of request have we made where
we expected a different kind of data to
come back
yeah
when we made our api request we expected
json back right we expected json back
and so guess what i coded this server to
do
this server
responds
with json as well
not only can it respond with html and
i'm going to
respond to css
javascript it can also respond
with some json data oh look at us
right
so this is the ability
right the ability to respond and build
right here is a template to build your
own api
right right here is a template to build
your own api it's a very simple one next
week it'll be a lot easier the parts are
a lot easier to work with but right here
is the basics of building your own api
let me show you so if we go back to our
site
and we type in john
bob's evil
twin
we get unknown unknown unknown but we
type in leon
we get leon
boss man
baller
right
and so when i actually clicked click me
what happened
wha what happened when i clicked click
me what happened
i made an api request
to my server
i made an api request to my own server
let's take a look at it
where would that request come from
where would that api request come from
where's the only place that we've made
api requests so far
javascript is correct but give me give
me something that comes before that
because we got two kinds of javascript
now what kind of javascript
client-side javascript exactly
client-side javascript the javascript
that's running in the browser are our
main js our main.js is the javascript
that's running
in our browser
right that enables us to make the
requests to the javascript that's
running on our server so we gotta get
comfortable with this idea of
client-side javascript versus
server-side
client-side is the stuff that we're used
to the main.js file that has our api
request that's all running in our
browser and it makes requests
to our servers let's take a look at our
main.js
and if we look
we have the event listener
and that event listener
fires our lovely
async function
our async function is doing a few things
it's getting a value
out of the input
and it's plugging that value
into a url that we are then making a
fetch
with
in this fetch
is the request
to our what
this fetch is a request to our what
to our server exactly
this fetch right here
this request
leaves the browser
goes to our server
and guess what
our server
is set up to hear that request
all right
was the url
api let's take a peek was the url api
it was all right the base url
was api
cool
so we we're inside the if now
was
the word student
in the query parameters
what is the word student inside the
query parameters
let's take a look
yes
the word student was in the query
parameter beautiful
it was in the query parameters all right
so
student was in the query parameters
was
whatever was student equal to
was it equal to leon let's go and take a
look
we passed leon in
leon was pulled out of
the input
we passed that value as a template
string into the url
student equaled leon so when we go to
the server we look all right
was the url api it was
what student in the query parameters it
was
was the student query parameter equal to
leon
it was
so what do we do
we respond with this information
we respond
with this information
and what are we responding with
we're responding with a little bit of
jason look at this go
all right
with a little bit of json a little jason
derulo you know what i'm saying
right we respond with that json
and if we look
the main js is waiting for that json
data right it it takes whatever we
respond with puts it in res
it makes sure that we're dealing with
that lovely json data and then we can
use that response
to plug stuff back into the dom
so it was a different kind of request
but our server
was still set up to handle it
right
now
what if
student wasn't a part of the query
parameters
right right
would this
have ran
no
what if
the student query parameter wasn't leon
well then we have an elsif here where we
respond with a different set of json
and so with just this very kind of
basic if else if
we built an api
and the cool thing is
we could have responded with anything
we could have done anything we wanted
inside of this
lovely bit of code so when we come back
you know what not only we're going to
respond with leon
boss man baller
but we're going to respond with a coin
flip
true or false heads or tails
right we're going to show how we can
make this api
do more and more stuff
so we're at the top of the hour
we'll take a little bit of a break if
you're new around here we only take five
minute breaks at the top of the hour if
you're able to please get up move around
hydrate
when we come back we're gonna show you
how we have full control we can do
whatever the heck we want
with that response
we're going to
see that
put it into practice we'll talk about
some of the other stuff that's happening
up here
uh and somebody keeps people asking leon
why why two equal signs
why not three why what two a lot of
weird stuff
what was your homework
what's your homework
what's the homework here
improve the code
make it better
make it easier more readable better
right so
lots of little wins here for you to
improve the code as part of your
homework but before we get there let's
go ahead and take a break
let's hydrate we're doing a seven minute
break because uh i'm sorry i forget the
person that redeemed it uh but they
redeemed a two minute extension last
class and i promised we'd tack it on ah
it was clockwork right yep
so we'll
we'll attach the two minutes on here and
when we come back we're going to take a
little bit deeper into how we can
respond whatever the heck we want to
respond with and then once we feel a bit
more comfortable we'll look for the rest
and then boom we're moving into project
night so thank you for being here thank
you for for hanging tough getting
through the initial
as we jump into the cold shower that is
node five minutes on the clock and then
sorry seven minutes one o'clock and
we'll be ready let's take a look at
these last little pieces and we're
moving on to project night let's go
let's work together
all right
so
we saw that our server is set up to
handle
a couple different kinds of requests
we saw that it set up to handle requests
from like a url being entered
we saw that it can handle the request
coming from when say the html file loads
and we saw that it's able to handle the
requests that are coming from our
client-side javascript
there's one other little thing here that
we have to understand
and that's like how does it know what
request is coming in
and that's where these two modules can
help us
that are definitely what we consider
deprecated now like there are like other
ways to do this now going into the
future
but uh for the old school way this is
how we did it
we were able to use the url module to
actually look at the path name
of the url
right the path name
right and so the cool thing is with the
path name
you can
just see what the path was
right and so
when we go to localhost 8000 the path is
just the forward slash when we go to
other page it's slash other page when we
go to slash other other page the path is
slash
other other page
right
and so
we're able to use this bit of code to
see
what the path was
and then once we know what the path was
that's when our conditionals start oh
was it just the main the main page
was it other page was it other other
page and that's it so that's how we're
able to see the different requests that
are coming in we just look at the path
name
on the url
cool
the other thing here is that sometimes
we want to look at the query parameters
that came in with the url
right and so here
is how we would look at the query
parameters that came in with the url
does it matter
what this string is
what this string is like like how it's
done
it doesn't matter the syntax or
the the the different combinations that
came in does it matter that there's
parse or there's a new way to get rid of
parse does it matter that there's
wrecked out your it just doesn't matter
this is how you get the path name
and this is how you get
the query parameters
i don't need to know
how it's working underneath the hood or
what it's doing i just know that if i
want the path
i can use this
and if i want the query string
right
just like queries yeah just like queries
like query selector it does a lot of
stuff for us to be able to grab pieces
of the dom
right do we do we lose sleep over how
query parameter like query selector
query selector all is actually doing it
no we just trust that that bit of code
is what grabs the dom element
right people are saying like yes i do
you're messing up if you let those
things bother you it's gonna be really
really hard to keep progressing in your
career because there's gonna be so much
stuff you just have to trust right as a
software engineer you you have to get
used to the idea that we could spend our
whole career on this one slither of
stuff
that enables us to like get really
really really better at like that one
thing
or we can trust the people that spent
years on those things
we can just use it and move on
right and so
you definitely have to keep like an
inquisitive mind you definitely have to
know like all right when something is no
longer useful or when it is useful but
there's so much stuff that if you keep
going
like
super super super super narrow focused
on all these little things you'll never
be able to kind of continue and to build
bigger and bigger stuff remember the
goal
right the goal
is to like accomplish
our goals right
our goal is to to build products our
goal is to provide value right
and so we could nerd out about what
exactly is happening like right here
or we could just know
that this is how we get the path off the
url
we could nerd out like what's happening
here or we could just know this is how i
get the query parameters off of url and
you gotta get comfortable
with some level of magic
right because as we keep adding more and
more stuff on top there's more and more
magic and once you're once you're in the
job
right once you're in the job once you're
getting paid
once you are building real products
if there's something that you were like
you know what
i really do want to understand
how it's parsing the url you can go back
and nerd out spend three weekends really
trying to understand it there's so many
things that i have gone back and done
that
but we're here to get jobs
right we're here to get jobs
we spent a long period of time talking
about one really important thing
which is called abstraction
exactly and now we're putting that
abstraction into play
right we're putting that abstraction
into play we're gonna trust that the
engineers that we're working on the
boiler and the steam one have done their
job and we're just gonna use it to build
our espresso machine
right
cool
all right so that's everything that's
happening in here
we have the ability to kind of listen to
all the different requests
and generate all of the
responses and i just wanted to do
something cool like let's say they let's
say they made the api request maybe that
fetch came in
we saw that student was in the query
parameters we saw that leon was there we
can do whatever we want here like i i
could do something like this i could do
like
math.random
right
um
times
two
all right let's put that into a
math.seal
right we do that
and we could do like
uh
math.random times two
equals
one
heads
whales
what the heck did i just do
boom coin flip exactly
so i just generated
i said all right let's make a a coin
flip right
math.random times 2 is going to give me
when i round it one or two
right so if it was one i'm gonna say
that was heads
and if it wasn't one then i'll say it
was tails
cool then we can just come down here
and
say flip
and pass in let's put this in a variable
let
uh res uh flip
result equal
and then we just plug in
click clip-rest here
right so we generated a coin flip
and then we're just gonna pass that back
along with our response
so very very quickly we can start to do
whatever the heck we want we can do
whatever the heck we want server side
right
i'm glad mine right
we can do whatever the flip flip we do
whatever the heck we want server side
and then send it back with that response
so we go back to our main js
um let's just let let's let's look at
the console log of data
i'm going to restart my server just
to make sure because it's been running
cool all right i made changes i
restarted my server
let's come back here let's refresh
let's make sure that the inspector is
open
console's open type in leon
boom and we can see
not only do we have the current
occupation of baller
now we also have a flip
of heads
all right we also have a flip of heads
and so very quickly we took what was
just a very simple api
and now we decide you know what instead
of it instead of it just being a normal
api
we're also going to determine whether or
not a coin flip was heads or tails and
we respond with that data
so now that you have the template
you can start to build
the app of your dreams that responds
with whatever you want
we just did a coin flip together but you
could very easily do rock paper scissors
right you could start to build out very
simple applications or very simple apis
using this template
i didn't change anything in the main.js
the main.js always had that that console
log and so i was just looking at in at
that console log here
that's all
questions while we're here
questions before we move on to project
night
questions while we're here
everybody wants to gamble
what's our project
the project
is up to you
the project is up to you
i want you to think about something as a
group
that you can do right
that you can do
and make it happen
so we just did coin flip
a lot of you will probably do like rock
paper scissors
right that's pretty common for for this
project if you if you can't think of
something original go with rock paper
scissors
right
but i typically think i think most
groups come up with something fun that
they can build
right and they use this bare bones
template here to start building out that
application now some of you might have a
lot of questions you might not still
feel comfortable with this code that's
the beauty of getting into a group
remember
tonight
is a night for folks to work together
of all different skill sets and
experiences
don't be the [__] [__] that's a
little bit further ahead and doesn't
want to support folks that are a little
bit further behind
don't be that person there's no room for
you in this community
right
no room for you in this community get
the [__] out if that's who you want to
be get the [__] out i don't want you
here
right so be kind
be helpful and that is the first
priority
getting the project done
right getting that project done is the
secondary thing i want everyone in these
groups to understand what's happening in
this code
i want everyone in the groups to come
together to build something fun
and if you can't work together if you
want to be a flex asaurus get the [__]
out i really don't want you a part of
this community anymore
we're gonna have some folks that they're
very very new to coding we're not some
folks that might not even been to the
last few classes it doesn't matter the
goal is to start working together
remember when we start applying to these
jobs there's two questions
can you code and do i want to work with
you for the next two years some of you
are really good at the coding part but
you got a lot of work when it comes to i
want to work with you for the next two
years because you're going to come
across folks of all different skill sets
and experiences on the job and so you
need to work on that too
so please
we are going to jump into remo
uh you can use remo to work for some
folks remo doesn't work that well so
we'll be on discord as well i want you
to find a group maybe in your study
community on discord uh maybe in one of
the voice channels on discord or on remo
definitely try remember because it's
smaller groups you can see each other
come together with a project idea
and then work on that project for the
rest of this evening i'm gonna ask for
your project submissions on tuesday
remember everyone has the fresh start
these projects matter if you want my
help at the end of program you need to
do these projects i need to be able to
talk to a hiring partner and say yes
this person has worked with several
engineers to build real projects don't
be the person that comes to class and
then runs away and doesn't do the
projects i can't vouch for you if you're
not working with other engineers
right so please
come hang out on remo hang out on
discord ask questions we're going to be
kind we're going to be helpful first the
finishing the project figuring out the
project is secondary
we got to get used to working in groups
we got to get used to working with other
engineers and tonight
is how it starts
all right folks
let's go ahead um i'm going to paste the
the the lovely remo
links in chat
if you don't have them i'm going to spam
them for you right here they were in
discord both in the follow along
materials and the learn with leon live
channel
so if you need them they're on discord
but i'm also going to span them here in
chat remember if
remo doesn't work too well for you try
remo first please if remo doesn't work
for you feel free to use discord
i want to see the cool stuff that you're
able to build
able to build remember
kind first
understand the code second build a
project third
we're trying to build the best place for
folks to learn how to code online
kindness always matters most all right
folks have a wonderful rest of your
night good luck getting into your groups
i'm going to be popping in on remo
seeing how folks are doing trying to
help a little bit
and i will see you all on sunday
for an amazing office hours and then
next week we get to express we're
building apis from scratch we're
building crud apps from scratch can't
wait to see you then all right good luck
getting into your groups good luck
working on your projects uh if you come
up with something cool share it on
discord or tweet me i would love to see
the projects that you work tweet me
tweet the projects out that you finish
uh tonight i want to see the cool stuff
coming in projects are gonna be due
tuesday all right folks good luck
getting on remo good luck getting on
discord and i'll see you on remo in just
a few seconds peace